===Version 2.1.2===
  * Better support for modded blocks. Added special blocks for Humans+ spawners.
  * Added cities/walls that use Humans+/CastleDefenders spawners.
  * UndergroundMossyCoblestoneCity.tml can now only be reached from surface via BattleBasements. 
  * Added a UndergroundSparseMossyCobblestoneCIty.tml city.
  * Default city and wall spawn frequencies have been lowered.
  * Renamed some of the settings file variables for clarity. Added chest contents to the settings file.
  * Default towers can now be rectangular.
  * Structures now tend to avoid water more.
  * Bugfixes.

===Version 2.1.1===
  * Greatly reduced lag due to lighting updates
  * Many modifications and additions to templates. Several new great wall templates.
  * Bugfixes and generation tweaks for underground cities.
  * Fixed a rare bug causing freezes.
===Version 2.1.0===
  * Updated for Minecraft 1.8.1
===Version 2.0.6===
  * New chunk explorer smooths out lag and speeds up generation time.
  * Improved layout of streets and structures for citites
  * Better compatibility with other terrain generation mods
  * Underground cities!
===Version 2.0.5===
  * mod will remember city locations in worlds as long as Minecraft is open
  * Cities can spawn in the nether.
  * Portals can spawn on top of certain types of towers.
  * New dungeon type for sandstone and ruined sandstone cities.
===Version 2.0.4===
  * Fixed the lighting bug
  * Player now receives a chat message announcing a city has spawned, can be turned off in the settings file.
  * Haunted Towers can contain multiple floors of spawners and some better loot
  * Cobblestone cities now have zombie pigmen, sandstone cites have more haunted towers
  * Cities now much less likely to explode
  * bugfixes
===Version 2.0.3===
  * Fixed a bug where building could be blocked by leaves
  * Introduced options for density and site levelling for cities
  * Option for furniture in buildings
  * Reworked the included city templates
===Version 2.0.2===
  * Further throttled generation of new chunks
  * Modified spawning algorithm to increase spawn chance.
  * Fixed the bug where walls tunnel through towers
  * Various other bugfixes
  * Primary tower block can now be generated from a template rule.
  * Added a collapse algorithm for towers when tower rule is less than 100 chance.
  * Changed the roof code format from numbers to descriptive labels (Crenel,Dome,etc.).
  * Added the Cone roof style.
  * Buildings can now be set to only spawn in certain biomes
===Version 2.0.1===
  * limited the amount of new chunks that can be generated by walls.
===Version 2.0===
  * Walls and buildings now built from .tml files.
  * Added setting to prevent cities from spawning next to each other.
===Version 1.1_1===
  * Updated for beta 1.6_6