===INSTALLATION – SSP===
NOTE – a [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vCpVlrUu2Po&feature=player_embedded video tutorial] for installation is also available – thanks HELLYERRR.
  #1Install the most recent version of ModLoader. You can [http://www.minecraftforum.net/topic/75440-v181-risugamis-mods-everything-updated/ get it here].
  #2Locate the main Minecraft directory (for example, on Windows 7 this could be C:\Users\Administrator\AppData\Roaming\.minecraft\).<br>
  #3Open bin\minecraft.jar using an archive program like 7-zip or Winrar.
  #4Drag the class files from inside the mod distribution’s class_files folder into the Minecraft jar.
  #5Delete META-INF directory within minecraft.jar.
  #6Close 7-zip or Winrar.
  #7Drag the mod distribution’s resources folder into the main Minecraft directory (drag the resources folder, not its contents). Select the option to merge the folders if prompted. This should add e.g. a resources/greatwall directory.
  #8Enjoy.

===INSTALLATION – SMP server===
  #1Open your minecraft_server.jar using an archive program like 7-zip or Winrar.
  #2Drag the mod class files from the class_files folder into the minecraft_server.jar
  #3Close 7-zip or Winrar.
  #4Drag the mod resources folder into the folder that contains minecraft_server.jar.
  #5Enjoy. Clients do not have to install anything to connect to a server running this mod.

===Activating the modded templates===
The SSP downloads of the mods include templates that populate stuctures with NPCs from other mods. The Walled City Mod has two cities CobblestoneCityHumansPlus.tml and SandstoneCityHumansPlus.tml with NPCS from Humans+, while the Great Wall Mod has SandstoneWallCastleDefenders.tml and StonebrickWallCastleDefenders.tml populated with NPCs from Castle Defenders. To active these templates:
  #1First make sure you have the requisite mods installed and running.
  #2Active the templates by opening the template files (in resources/walledcity and resources/greatwall respectively) and changing the first line to `weight=5`.
  #3You will probably want to disable the unmodded versions of these templates by opening up and setting their `weight` to zero.